JooJoo went to the Naval Observatory in
Washington for a visit with Vice
President Joe Biden his wife Jill they
don't often talk about it but their
decades-long marriage is a famous
Washington love story and juju they are
clearly best friends they really are and
you know we all know that there's been a
lot of cynicism about political
marriages right but the Biden's have a
genuine love and respect for each other
that's easy to see at one point there
they pointed to the backyard of the
residence and called their pool
grandchild bait they said you know
they'd love to have the grandkids come
over they're a very tight-knit clan and
the center of it is a very sweet love
story politics famously wreaks havoc on
political marriages yours is not only a
strong marriage but a true love affair
at least on my part as long as we know
that the career is less important than
the marriage then it works um and for us
it's a this is no great love stories
just you know is what our both our
parents taught us as you just everything
works if the marriage is work so you
think political marriages have gotten a
bad name you a lot of the couples we
know and we've spent time with have
really solid marriages and I think this
lifestyle is too tough not to really
stick together people say oh you know
everybody cheats in Washington and
that's not the truth you have to have a
strong marriage to survive it for this
couple it started 35 years ago when a
young widowed father went on a blind
date with a mature co-ed and fell man
love at first sight well it sounds
stupid but really and truly I mean the
second date we went out I called her and
said would you do me a favor we should
not go out with anyone again for a while
and the boys literally asked that you
marry her beau said daddy we were
talking we think we should marry Jill
and they were the easiest part of the
marriage five years earlier Joe Biden's
first wife and mother of his two sons
Bowen hunter died tragically in a car
accident along with their infant
daughter we my brother dad and I married
my mom Jill and they together rebuilt
our family when we got married I I
became their mom I instantly quit my job
and I did the mom thing she also went
back and got a PhD and worked as a
college professor it's known among your
staff that we literally they say we
really literally can't tell the vice
president when Jill is around campus
because he gets so distracted and so
excited I think you're blushing matter
that's so obvious to everybody I mean
this uh but uh I just I Drive her nuts
because she needs some space but I when
she's in I said well I knew I would have
lunch with her I said no she got
something to do a nice like well why
can't look I it's only across the street
why can't I go my step says he's coming
over again I'm blessed to have a husband
who loves me so much really so give the
rest of us a break okay wig something's
got it anointed you must fight over
something oh we fight over a lot of
things we're like every other couple um
love is hard and I mean I mean it's not
there's nothing easy about it I will not
leave the house I swear to God
until she kisses me and gives me a hug
when we have a fight because you never
know if I know my own life experience I
think to myself what would have happened
in my previous circumstance had I had a
big fight and then something happen and
so I'm a and that drives her nuts I
understand that when you have a sort of
policy dispute
you want to get his attention on a
policy issue you have a specific tactic
oh yeah I always make my point on his
bathroom mirror
a lot of times I scotch tape a point I
want to make or if I see an article in
the paper that maybe shows my side or my
point of view and a lot of times we have
the scotch tape going back and forth so
all right one way one way scotch tape
one way one way stretch to a practical
joker
professor Biden is known for her easy
sense of humor do you have fun together
sighs making fun that's fun for a lot of
wives what does she make fun of you
yeah a joke could there possibly be she
makes fun of everything from whether or
not I wake up in the morning my hair
sticking up - with the kids - whether or
not you know I that I'm too serious
she'll kid it I mean I am the sport at
the family dinner table for her favorite
holiday Valentine's the second lady
snuck into the vice president's White
House office last year there's these big
windows that are probably 10 12 feet
high and almost every pane of glass Jill
had in lipstick general you know they
were poster folks and all in red where
you know Jill loves Joe and all these
hearts and Valentine's and hey you know
it didn't separate please me but it
didn't surprise me the White House
Valentine now I tried really hard to
find out what was in store for this
Valentine's Day but it's like a state
secret but a funny story the Vice
President had to propose to her five
times and give her an ultimatum before
she finally agreed she said she wanted
to be sure everybody was a hundred
percent sure before they rebuilt it sure
seems like they were what a terrific
story today now he's got something to
top on last year's valid salute me that
was terrific thank you